# Media By Ryan - Portfolio Website by Ryan Eldred - Neville
## Tell us about the process of creating the portfolio website
For sure, it was a long and tedious process through which I have learned a lot out of. It of course began with the User Experience Design class where we started with an industry proposal describing what we want our portfolio website to be about. This was the very first step in creating this website. Afterwards, we tested out the market and worked with target audiences by creating personas that we think imitate different types of customers for our website and services that we offer. After this, we began to narrow down on what we want the general look and aesthetic of our website to feel like by using style tiles and moodboards. This is where I chose the green and light gray aesthetic that I would follow through with my end product. After this, we started building out what the websites navigation would look like by creating a sitemap of the navigation menu, this was a very helpful step as it was the building blocks for my website. After all of this we finally began creating our wireframes. We started with the low fidelity rough wireframes, which I drew by hand on pieces of paper. Once we finished those, we did high fidelity wireframes where we added pictures, text, buttons, colors and everything else a website would have, which I did on Figma. The final step was prototyping the high fidelity wireframes which was very fun. I enjoyed linking all of the buttons together and connecting the navigation menu to every page. It was eye opening seeing what the final coded product could look like! Which is where this class comes in. The very final step in this process of creating the website was coding it, making it accessible and bringing it to life. This was a tedious and challenging process which made me learn a lot about bootstrap and coding in general, which I will expand on in the next answers. 
## Tell us about the challenges you faced while developing this website
Although this was a very fun experience to create my very own portfolio website that showcases my work and abilities, there were definitely a few challenges that I faced while developing it. Most of which I faced during the coding stage. First, using bootstrap was a big learning curve as I have never used it before and it was new to me. It was especially challenging forcing myself not to go all out in the CSS and add lots of styling on everything like I did in the midterm and instead mainly just apply bootstrap classes to my HTML. Second, improving the accessibility of my website was a tough- but important task. There were lots of different ways that I had to change my website to make it as accessible as possible which was a tedious process, like putting ARIA roles and labels all throughout my HTML, adding skip-links, making sure my website fits all browser sizes and scales properly, and proper contrast. I found proper contrast to be especially challenging because I had to check all of the font colors on my website and the backgrounds they were against. Many of them came out to be under the mininum ratio of 4:5:1 which caused me to have to change some of the colors of my text and backgrounds which was hard to do as this wasn't the exact color scheme I laid out in my high fidelity wireframes.
## How did you overcome these changes?
I overcame these challenges and changes by simply working through them. As obvious as it sounds, nothing beats staying focused and working hard. For example, I wasn't comfortable with bootstrap at the beginning and was struggling to find the right classes to apply and wondering when to use CSS and when not to, but after simply working through my navigation menu and noticing that I perfected the look of it, I gained confidence and realized it wasn't so hard and was accomplishable. Improving the accessibility was the same thing, I had to overcome it by simply doing it. Even though I was second guessing if I had used the right ARIA roles and itemprop commands, I gained more confidence after a while of doing it and stopped second guessing myself. All of this is only accomplishable by simply working through each problem logically and allowing yourself to learn from it. 
## What have you learned by creating your web portfolio?
I learned that I am capable of a lot more than I thought I was. When I first started hearing that we were going to create and code a working portfolio website to display our work, I instantly started doubting myself and was second guessing if I was capable of creating it. I learned that if you take it step by step and slowly work through the full process step by step all the way from the industry proposal to coding the website that it suddenly becomes a lot more tangible. I also learned that you don't need to know everything right off the bat and that there will be challenges your way that cause you to learn, even when you don't realize it. For example, all of the challenges that I mentioned I had faced while coding this website allowed me to learn from it and walk out of this experience knowing a lot more about coding and having more confidence. I confidently feel like I can do this same thing twice as fast and twice as efficient next time. 
## Assets used
### Frameworks & Libraries
- [Hover.css - Used for grow animation](https://ianlunn.github.io/Hover/)
- [Bootstrap - Used for styling](https://getbootstrap.com/)
### Fonts (Google Fonts)
- [Bebas Neue - Used for headers](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Bebas+Neue)
- [Inter - Used for subheaders & text](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Inter?query=inter)
### Extensions & Applications 
- [WAVE Evaluation Tool - Used for checking accessibility such as ARIA and Schema](https://wave.webaim.org/)
- [HTML Validator - Used to validate HTML and check for errors](https://validator.w3.org/nu/#textarea)
- [CSS Validator - Used to validate CSS and check for errors](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/#validate_by_input)
- [WebAIM Contrast Checker - Used to check text contrast](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/)
### Images
All images photographed by myself (Ryan Eldred-Neville/Media By Ryan)
### My website design in Figma
- [Media By Ryan Prototype](https://www.figma.com/design/GzfcKxw5ydM0f8ZZkDDT6B/eldred_ryan_prototype?node-id=35-2&p=f&t=3giMYxF7H96C7rLp-0)